README.md, before:

A puppet module for managing logstash indexers and shippers

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/garethr/garethr-logstash.png)](http://travis-ci.org/garethr/garethr-logstash)

Also available via on the Puppet Forge at
[garethr/logstash](http://forge.puppetlabs.com/garethr/logstash)

Tested on Ubuntu 12.04 Precise but should work elsewhere.

## Usage

### Logstash indexer

To install the logstash indexer on a node, add the following to your node manifest:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      include 'logstash::indexer'
    }

With parameters:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      class { 'logstash::indexer':
        workers => 4,
      }
    }

We default the workers to 1 but if you have lots of filters and more
than a single CPU then experimenting with this should help performance.

Until I find time to provide more ways of configuring logstash you can
just override the configuration file like so:

      class { 'logstash::indexer':
        config  => 'puppet:///path/to/config/file.conf',
      }

The default indexer configuration is really for demo purposes, it uses
the built-in elasticsearch server and automatically starts up the web
application too. You can disable that behaviour with. If you have an
elasticsearch server elsewhere you can use the web_backend parameter to
specify the connection string.
      
      class { 'logstash::indexer':
        web_backend => false,
      }

### Logstash shipper

To install the logstash shipper on a node, add the following to your node manifest:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      include 'logstash::shipper'
    }

With parameters:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      class { 'logstash::shipper':
        workers => 4,
        config  => 'puppet:///path/to/config/file.conf',
      }

    }

## Dependencies 

This module currently has a hard coded configuration for demonstration
purposes. It requires Redis which could be installed via [this
module](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/thomasvandoren/redis). The
configuration takes input from syslog and saves it to files in
/var/log/logstash.

## Credit

This module started out as a fork of
[puppet-logstash](https://github.com/pkhamre/puppet-logstash)

Commit message:

add and test defined types for configuration

README.md, after:

A puppet module for managing logstash indexers and shippers

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/garethr/garethr-logstash.png)](http://travis-ci.org/garethr/garethr-logstash)

Also available via on the Puppet Forge at
[garethr/logstash](http://forge.puppetlabs.com/garethr/logstash)

Tested on Ubuntu 12.04 Precise but should work elsewhere.

## Usage

### Logstash indexer

To install the logstash indexer on a node, add the following to your node manifest:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      include 'logstash::indexer'
    }

With parameters:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      class { 'logstash::indexer':
        workers => 4,
      }
    }

We default the workers to 1 but if you have lots of filters and more
than a single CPU then experimenting with this should help performance.

Until I find time to provide more ways of configuring logstash you can
just override the configuration file like so:

      class { 'logstash::indexer':
        config  => 'puppet:///path/to/config/file.conf',
      }

The default indexer configuration is really for demo purposes, it uses
the built-in elasticsearch server and automatically starts up the web
application too. You can disable that behaviour with. If you have an
elasticsearch server elsewhere you can use the web_backend parameter to
specify the connection string.
      
      class { 'logstash::indexer':
        web_backend => false,
      }

### Logstash shipper

To install the logstash shipper on a node, add the following to your node manifest:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      include 'logstash::shipper'
    }

With parameters:

    node 'node01.example.org' {
      class { 'logstash::shipper':
        workers => 4,
        config  => 'puppet:///path/to/config/file.conf',
      }

    }

## Configuration

I've added some defined types to manage configuration, so you can now
do:

    logstash::shipper::config { 'auth':
      content => 'input { file { type => "auth" path => [
"/var/log/auth.log" ] } }' 
    }

Alternatively you can provide a source path:

    logstash::shipper::config { 'auth':
      source  => 'puppet:///path/to/config/file.conf',
    }

This works for the indexer too, using _logstash::indexer::config_.

## Dependencies 

This module currently has a hard coded configuration for demonstration
purposes. It requires Redis which could be installed via [this
module](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/thomasvandoren/redis). The
configuration takes input from syslog and saves it to files in
/var/log/logstash.

## Credit

This module started out as a fork of
[puppet-logstash](https://github.com/pkhamre/puppet-logstash)
